Changes from upstream cfitsio
=============================

Here is the list of differences with the HEASARC, NASA/GSFC cfitsio
upstream [1]:

Build system
------------

* Use of libtool, which comes with all the libtool goodness and
  portability for compiler and linker platform wrapping and
  shared/static easiness of building.

* zlib is unbundled and cfitsio is linked to zlib system libraries.
  A new ax_zlib.m4 macro is used to check the stock zlib compatibility,
  by first checking the existencea of the pkg-config file.

* The executable tools fpack, funpack, imcopy, fitscopy, and listhead are
  built by default. Disable with --without-tools.
  The listhead exec has been re-introduced (it was removed from upstream
  3.270 and above)

* An option to build cfitsio without fortran (--disable-fortran) has
  been introduced

* The Globus ftp detection (--with-gsiftp option) has been rewritten

* Threading uses a more standard autoconf macro ax_pthread.m4 from the
  autoconf archive [2], resulting in the more intuitive option
  --enable-threads instead of --enable-reentrant

* simple unit testing now can be compiled and executed with "make check"

* Modern and portable autoconf macros are used to check existing
  functions and libraries

* Use of autoheader to generate config.h at configure time that will
  be used at compile time for all macros HAVE_* definitions

* The generated parsing files (eval_*) are now built using the BUILT_SOURCES
  feature of automake.

* The cfitsio.pc pkg-config file generated by configure now uses all
  libraries and is versioned at configure time

Code fixes
----------

We try to keep synchronized with upstream as much as possible.
Some patches are applied to the code itself if we think they are
necessary. If we apply patches, they will be located in the addons/patches
directory. Some are from Gentoo, other are inspired from users or
other distributions ([3],[4]).

Note
----

We have tried twice to give upstream some hints that some of this work
could be applied, but have never got any answer. Feel free to lobby.


References
----------
[1] http://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/fitsio/fitsio.html

[2] http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/autoconf-archive.git

[3] http://pkgs.fedoraproject.org/gitweb/?p=cfitsio.git

[4] http://packages.qa.debian.org/c/cfitsio3.html
